#NOTES GIVEN BY THE COURSE PROVIDERS

When a user clicks on a link or enters a URL in the address of your Web browser,
it downloads the page’s HTML text and builds up a model of the document’s structure 
called the DOM (Document Object Model). This model is used to render the HTML page on the screen.

The DOM is a standard  that describes how a document must be manipulated. It defines a
“language- and platform neutral interface”. So, every browser offers the same JavaScript DOM API.

The DOM API is a programming interface the JavaScript programmer can use to modify
the HTML content or the CSS style of HTML elements on the fly.

The DOM API provides the document object as a structured object, a group of 
nodes represented as a tree. We saw this in Module 1 when we revised the basic principles of HTML .

The document object also exposes a large set of methods to access and manipulate
the structured document. Through the DOM, look for nodes (html elements that compose
the page), move nodes, delete nodes, modify nodes (attributes, content), and also handle
their associated events.

In JavaScript, the DOM is accessible through the property document of the global 
object window. We rarely manipulate the window object directly as it is implicit:
window.document is the same as document. 

So by using this object, we can access and manipulate our page from JavaScript as a structured document

There are different types of nodes, but don't worry - the most useful ones are highlighted in bold.

Element (example: <ul></ul>)
Text (example: <p>the text within the element p is a node of type text</p>)
Document, DocumentFragment, DocumentType (example: <!doctype html> for html5), Comment 
(example: <!-- left column -->), ProcessingInstruction (example: <?php echo $name ?>)
You can also use the "DOM inspector" to locate a particular element with the mouse: click the 
target icon and click on  the element on the page that you want to inspect, this time with Google Chrome, 
but you will find this option in all modern browsers' devtool consoles:
